Add Habana Gaudi 2 blog post (#702)
huggingface/blog: habana-gaudi-2-benchmark.md

---
title: "Faster Training and Inference: Habana Gaudi 2 vs Nvidia A100 80GB"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/habana-gaudi-2-benchmark/thumbnail.png
---

# Faster Training and Inference: Habana Gaudi 2 vs Nvidia A100 80GB

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published December 09, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/habana-gaudi-2-benchmark.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/regisss">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1644920200150-620b7c408f5871b8a1a168a7.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>regisss</code>
            <span class="fullname">Régis Pierrard</span>
        </div>

>     </a>

Reviewer: Maybe you can have a co-author from Habana?

Author: @sreeganesan Any idea who could be a co-author on your side?

</div>

> In this article, you will learn how to start using [Habana Gaudi 2](https://habana.ai/training/gaudi2/) to accelerate model training and inference and train bigger models with 🤗 [Optimum Habana](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/habana/index). Then, several benchmarks will be presented to assess the performance gap between Gaudi 1, Gaudi 2 and Nvidia A100 80GB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this article, you will learn how to use [Habana Gaudi 2](https://habana.ai/training/gaudi2/) to accelerate model training and inference, and train bigger models with 🤗 [Optimum Habana](https://huggingface.co/docs/optimum/habana/index). Then, we present several benchmarks including BERT pre-training, Stable Diffusion inference and T5 fine-tuning, to assess the performance gap between Gaudi 1, Gaudi 2 and Nvidia A100 80GB. Spoiler alert - Gaudi 2 is about twice faster than Nvidia A100 80GB for both training and inference!
```

Reviewer 2: the results are so cool I thought we should have the summary up top

Author: Yes great idea!

So if you already have ready-to-use training or inference workflows for Gaudi 1, we encourage you to try them on Gaudi 2 as they will work without any single change.

## How to Get Access to Gaudi 2?

To start using Gaudi 2, you should follow the following steps:

1. Go to the [Intel Developer Zone](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/my-intel/developer-sign-in.htm) and sign in to your account or register if you do not have one.

2. Go to the [Intel Developer Cloud management console](https://scheduler.cloud.intel.com/#/systems).

3. Select *Habana Gaudi2 Deep Learning Server featuring eight Gaudi2 HL-225H mezzanine cards and latest Intel® Xeon® Processors* and click on *Launch Instance* in the lower right corner as shown below.
<figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
  <img src="assets/habana-gaudi-2-benchmark/launch_instance.png" alt="Cloud Architecture"/>
</figure>

4. You can then request an instance:
<figure class="image table text-center m-0 w-full">
  <img src="assets/habana-gaudi-2-benchmark/request_instance.png" alt="Cloud Architecture"/>
</figure>

> 5. Once your request is validated, re-do the step 3 and click on *Add OpenSSH Publickey* to add a payment method (credit card or promotion code) and a SSH publick key that you can generate with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa`. You may be redirected to step 3 each time you add a payment method or a SSH public key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Once your request is validated, re-do the step 3 and click on *Add OpenSSH Publickey* to add a payment method (credit card or promotion code) and a SSH public key that you can generate with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa`. You may be redirected to step 3 each time you add a payment method or a SSH public key.
```

Author: Good catch!

The results we got are presented in the table below. **Gaudi 2 is x2.44 faster than A100 80GB.** We observe that we cannot fit a batch size larger than 1 on Gaudi 2 here. This is due to the memory space taken by the graph where operations are accumulated during the first iteration of the run. To go further, we are looking forward to expanding this benchmark to [DeepSpeed](https://www.deepspeed.ai/) to see if the same trend holds.

<center>

|   | Gaudi 1 | Gaudi 2 (BS=1) | A100 (BS=16) |
|:-:|:-------:|:--------------:|:------------:|
| Throughput (samples/s) | N/A | 19.7 | 8.07 |
| Speedup | / | x2.44 | x1.0 |

</center>

*BS* is the batch size per device. Gaudi 2 and A100 runs were performed in fp32 with gradient checkpointing enabled.

## Conclusion

In this article, you have seen that Habana Gaudi 2 significantly improves Gaudi 1 and is about twice as fast as Nvidia A100 80GB for both training and inference.

You also know now how to setup a Gaudi 2 instance through the Intel Developer Zone. Check out the [examples](https://github.com/huggingface/optimum-habana/tree/main/examples) you can easily run on such a device with 🤗 Optimum Habana.

> If you are interested in accelerating your training and/or inference workflows, [contact our experts](mailto:expert-acceleration@huggingface.co) to learn about our [Expert Acceleration Program](https://huggingface.co/support). To learn more about Habana solutions, [read about our partnership and how to contact them](https://huggingface.co/hardware/habana).

Reviewer: maybe also link to the Hardware program?

> If you are interested in accelerating your training and/or inference workflows, contact us to learn about our [Hardware Partner Program](https://huggingface.co/hardware) and our [Expert Acceleration Program](https://huggingface.co/support). To learn more about Habana solutions, [read about our partnership and how to contact them](https://huggingface.co/hardware/habana).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are interested in accelerating your Machine Learning training and inference workflows using the latest AI hardware accelerators and software libraries, check out our [Expert Acceleration Program](https://huggingface.co/support). To learn more about Habana solutions and contact Habana, [you can read about our partnership here](https://huggingface.co/hardware/habana). To learn more about Hugging Face efforts to make AI hardware accelerators easy to use, check out our [Hardware Partner Program](https://huggingface.co/hardware). 
```
